KEP-3953: In-place Node Resource Resize (#3955)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-node/3953-node-resource-hot-plug/README.md

## Motivation
In a typical Kubernetes environment, the cluster resources may need to be altered due to following reasons:
- Incorrect resource assignment during cluster creation.
- Increased workload over time, leading to the need for additional resources in the cluster.

To handle these scenarios, we can:
- Horizontally scale up the cluster by adding compute nodes.
- Vertically scale up the cluster by increasing node capacity. However, currently, the workaround for capturing node resizing in the cluster involves restarting the Kubelet.

Node resource hot plugging will provide advantages in scenarios such as:
- Handling resource demand with a limited set of nodes by increasing the capacity of existing nodes instead of creating new nodes.
- Creating new nodes takes more time compared to increasing the capacity of existing nodes.

### Goals

* Dynamically scale up the node by hot plugging  resources and without restarting the kubelet.
* Ability to reinitialize resource managers (CPU manager, memory manager) to adopt changes in node's resource.

### Non-Goals

* Dynamically adjust system reserved and kube reserved values.

> * Hot unplug of node resources.

Reviewer: I am not convinced it is right to capture hot unplug in the non-goal section. I understand that it is currently not in scope for alpha due to certain challenges but those should be well documented in the KEP for posterity and considering we might want to pursue scale down at later stage of this KEP e.g. Beta or GA.

Author: The reason behind having Hot unplug of node resources in the Non-Goals is to have propose separate KEP in future based on the community feedback for the scale down/unplug of resource. Hence to we renamed this KEP from Node Dynamic resize to Node Resource Hot plug with more focus towards upscaling the resoureces.

Reviewer 2: when we break something down to pieces like this, we try to outline the path forward. Any time we just vaguely postpone the hard problem for the future, we end up not merging solution for a simple problem as some tradeoffs in code are harder to make without knowing how harder problems will be addressed

Reviewer 3: breaking it into two was my idea as it seemed more accessible to do hot plug because then kubelet doesn't have to go through admission again. would you prefer the two features be tackled at once @SergeyKanzhelev ? or just the downsize case be though through while we're considering the upsize

Reviewer 4: @SergeyKanzhelev has a point here. The breakdown also makes sense to me, but we need to make sure there's an incremental path forward and that, when we tackle hotunplug, we can be reasonnably sure we can build on these foundations and not have to undo some changes.

I think the middleground could be start outlining the hard parts with hotunplug and start sketching out the needs we have to solve them.

Author: Sure, Currently I have added the hot unplug under the scope for Future Work section in this KEP however please let use know we need to add in more details to this same KEP or if it is ideal to start working on another KEP regarding this in parallel.

Reviewer 2: details are required in this KEP. It is not a good way to slice the feature as accounting for the node downsize may have implications for the upsize

Author: Added a section about Handling HotUnplug Events with some details.

Author: There were concerns regarding HotUnplug so we wanted to clearly mention it as non-goal for this KEP, 
However it was also necessary to highlight sequence events incase of HotUnplug. we only wanted to support hotunplug as informing event rather than functionally handling it in a future KEP.

Reviewer 5: Sounds like hot-unplug, even though listed as future work, is completely decoupled from this KEP. 

Naively thinking, the way hot-plug is designed/implemented is likely to affect how hot-unplug can be done the future. Could we talk about why the current design will be compatible with hot-unplug even with the known challenges there?

Reviewer 3: closing the loop here: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/5585

Additionally, this KEP aims to improve the initialization and reinitialization of resource managers, such as the memory manager and CPU manager, so that they can adapt to change in node's configurations.

### User Stories

#### Story 1

As a cluster admin, I must be able to increase the cluster resource capacity without adding a new node to the cluster.

#### Story 2

As a cluster admin, I must be able to increase the cluster resource capacity without need to restarting the kubelet.

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

### Risks and Mitigations

1. Node resource hot plugging is an opt-in feature, merging the
   feature related changes won't impact existing workloads. Moreover, the feature
   will be rolled out gradually, beginning with an alpha release for testing and
   gathering feedback. This will be followed by beta and GA releases as the
   feature matures and potential problems and improvements are addressed.

> 2. Though the node resource is updated dynamically, the dynamic data is fetched from cAdvisor and its well integrated with kubelet.

Reviewer: I saw discussions around pursuing CRI for obtaining resource information and not completely relying on Cadvisor. Can we capture in the KEP why we decided to go ahead with Cadvisor approach? I think we should still capture details related to CRI in Alternatives section.

Author: So when we initially brought up this feature request there were opinion on moving away from cAdvisor for various reasons like  cAdvisor data structure is not able to correctly represent a variety of modern CPU architectures. We are planning to separate KEP for that and work is in progress.

With either of them will just provide latest machine Info and we want to make kubelet consume and react to that decided to move with cAdvisor which is already integrated with kubelet.

Reviewer 3: there is a KEP to remove cadvisor from the equation, but the node level metrics would be collected by the kubelet in that case. CRI stats (2371) doesn't have moving machine metrics to CRI in scope

Reviewer 4: In this case I see some benefits in making the resource managers react to hotplug without changing the resource information, which is a related but different (and quite big) task.
I agree this wok should be mentioned somewhere in the KEP per @swatisehgal suggestion, though.

* State of Pending pods due to lack of resources after resource hot plug.
* Resource manager states after the resynch of components.

### Graduation Criteria

#### Phase 1: Alpha (target 1.33)

* Feature is disabled by default. It is an opt-in feature which can be enabled by enabling the `NodeResourceHotPlug`
  feature gate.
* Support the basic functionality for scheduler to consider pod-level resource requests to find a suitable node.
* Support the basic functionality for kubelet to translate pod-level requests/limits to pod-level cgroup settings.
* Unit test coverage.
* E2E tests.
* Documentation mentioning high level design.

### Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy

<!--
If applicable, how will the component be upgraded and downgraded? Make sure
this is in the test plan.

Consider the following in developing an upgrade/downgrade strategy for this
enhancement:
- What changes (in invocations, configurations, API use, etc.) is an existing
  cluster required to make on upgrade, in order to maintain previous behavior?
- What changes (in invocations, configurations, API use, etc.) is an existing
  cluster required to make on upgrade, in order to make use of the enhancement?

> -->

Reviewer: Please remove comments and populate these sections

Author: Updated it. Thank you for the review.

    - [ ] (R) Minimum Two Week Window for GA e2e tests to prove flake free
- [ ] (R) Graduation criteria is in place
    - [ ] (R) [all GA Endpoints](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/1806) must be hit by [Conformance Tests](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/conformance-tests.md)
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review completed
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review approved
- [ ] "Implementation History" section is up-to-date for milestone
- [ ] User-facing documentation has been created in [kubernetes/website], for publication to [kubernetes.io]
- [ ] Supporting documentation—e.g., additional design documents, links to mailing list discussions/SIG meetings, relevant PRs/issues, release notes

<!--
**Note:** This checklist is iterative and should be reviewed and updated every time this enhancement is being considered for a milestone.
-->

[kubernetes.io]: https://kubernetes.io/
[kubernetes/enhancements]: https://git.k8s.io/enhancements
[kubernetes/kubernetes]: https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes
[kubernetes/website]: https://git.k8s.io/website

## Summary

> The proposal aims at enabling hot plugging of node compute resources. This will help in updating cluster resource capacity by just resizing compute resources of nodes rather than adding new node to a cluster.

Reviewer 2: when it say hot plugging, does it include hot unplugging?

Author: No, Currently in this KEP we are focusing on hot plug and in future to have seperate KEP for hot unplug.

Reviewer 4: worth adding a reminder/terms definition right at the beginning at the kep. Something like (feel free to change/elaborate):

- hotplug: dynamically add compute resources (CPU, memory) to the node, either via software (online offlined resources) or via hardware (physical additions while the system is running)
- hotunplug: dynamically remove compute resources (CPU, memory) to the node, either via software (make resources go offline) or via hardware (physical removal while the system is running)

Then we can use the terms freely in the rest of the document

Author: Sure, Will do that, Thanks

> The updated node configurations are to be reflected at the node and cluster levels automatically without the need to reset the kubelet.

Reviewer 2: What about security implications? Once the node hijacked it can pretend it can hold way more Pods than it really could and it may receive some pods and associated secrets that would not be available otherwise. Clearly this KEP needs the security section to discuss this and potentially other implications.

Reviewer 3: how would the node be hijacked in this case? the kubelet should be gathering the memory totals from the machine info from cadvisor, so either the kubelet binary would have to be hacked, or you'd have to spoof the values in the cgroups? or are you talking about strictly the node object being mutable and thus a hacker being able to change that in the API is a source of risk?

Reviewer 2: asking about the mutable object mostly.

This proposal also aims to improve the initialization and reinitialization of resource managers, such as the CPU manager and memory manager, in response to changes in a node's CPU and memory configurations.

## Motivation
In a typical Kubernetes environment, the cluster resources may need to be altered due to following reasons:
- Incorrect resource assignment during cluster creation.
- Increased workload over time, leading to the need for additional resources in the cluster.

To handle these scenarios, we can:
- Horizontally scale up the cluster by adding compute nodes.

> - Vertically scale up the cluster by increasing node capacity. However, currently, the workaround for capturing node resizing in the cluster involves restarting the Kubelet.

Reviewer 2: not only restarting the kubelet. It involves the recreating the node object, correct? Or we assume that the mutation by restarting the kubelet is the supported scenario today?

Author: I think restarting kubelet should be sufficient to capture the latest machine info.

Reviewer 2: Do you execute this KEP in assumption that this is a supported scenario? I do not think the update of available resources on kubelet restart is an officially supported use case and should not be treated as such.

Author: No, I agree that restarting Kubelet is not the best practice/officially supported  but it is a work around to mitigate the issue.

Reviewer 4: Good point, I also implicitely assumed the mutation of the node object will work fine, but this needs to be verified.

Reviewer 2: If the assumption is that kubelet restart is enough for the node resize, than this assumption needs to be codified: agreed with approvers, documented, and tested as a conformance test.

Right now we have this node in node reference: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/

>  when Node configuration needs to be updated, it is a good practice to re-register the node with the API server.

Author: Does re-register mean to delete and re-create a node? 

We are unsure of any other side effects due to kubelet restart hence considered it as a workaround to update machine info, however in parallel we will carry out exercise to understand if there are any side effects to it.

> Node resource hot plugging will provide advantages in scenarios such as:

Reviewer 2: Please provide stronger motivation than "takes more time". This motivational section looks very weak.

Reviewer 4: concrete use cases are also beneficial. The more (and the more concrete) the better. VMs come to mind to me because of my background, but this can be a wild thought.

Author: I have revisited and made few more points under the section, Thanks

- Handling resource demand with a limited set of nodes by increasing the capacity of existing nodes instead of creating new nodes.
- Creating new nodes takes more time compared to increasing the capacity of existing nodes.

> ### Goals

Reviewer 2: what about NRI plugins? Handling any other sideeffects?

Reviewer 3: I'd say out of scope, though it is relevant to NRI plugin authors that the values could change and they should be reactive to that.

Reviewer 2: I do not think that assessing impact of this KEP on components, especially known components like NRI plugins can be out of scope. Saying that we ignore any issues caused by that and we will document it is a form of assessment and it should be included.

Specifically for NRI plugins, one alternative we can (should?) discuss is whether we need to notify the container runtime about the change in resources how kubelet sees them.

Reviewer 3: Since the runtimes (and by extension NRI) don't get initialyy notified by the kubelet on what the kubelet thinks of the nodes resources, I'd expect whatever mechanism they use to gather the node stats can be updated to handle hot plug in the same way kubelet is. Unless we want to introduce a resource API that can be called up into, I don't think we should notify down in this way. Though, calling it out as such I think is a good idea

Reviewer 2: @Karthik-K-N have you reviewed that neither arguments of existing CRI APIs depend on the current value of the available memory and cpu? If so than we just need to raise awareness via documentation. I guess cpu quotas are only depends on the processor so one more processor wouldn't matter when we pass CPU quota to the runtime.

I can only think of the memory swap that is dependent on the total memory on the machine. Is there a separtate thread discussing how we deal with it?

Author: yes, only Memory swap and OOMScoreAdj depends on total memory on the machine. We are planning to update them for existing container via `UpdateContainerResources` CRI API.

Also can you please  help by pointing to document which needs to be updated to add these information?

Reviewer 5: > Since the runtimes (and by extension NRI) don't get initialyy notified by the kubelet on what the kubelet thinks of the nodes resources,

Have to agree here. We never defined the node resource API or even try to ensure the available resources seen by the runtime is consistent with what kubelet sees. It's strange for kubelet to suddenly send a resource update to the runtime without knowing what the call means.

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/5319 it seems this KEP is planning to introduce a node resource API coming from CRI, and implies it's a prereq for this KEP

Reviewer 6: No, these two KEPs are independent. #3953 (i.e. this one) makes the node resources hot-pluggable but the data still comes from cAdvisor. #5319 proposes to change the source of truth from cAdvisor to something else. #5319 on its own would get the info from non-cAdvisor but only at kubelet startup (no hotplug). Makes sense?

> ### Goals

Reviewer 2: what about swap calculations? Will they be updated if node size increased?

Author: Yeah, It should be updated as the swap calculation [depends](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/kubelet/kuberuntime/kuberuntime_container_linux.go#L459-L473) on node total memory. I will update the KEP to include the same, Thanks.

Reviewer 2: so we will need to update every Pod with the new swap values? What CRI call we will use to do it?

Author: Initially we decided to calculate new swap limit for newly created pods post resize, But we are also considering need for recalculating the swap limit for already existing pods, This is inline to a discussion regarding oom_score_adj: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/3955#discussion_r1942333326

Looking forward to hearing your opinion about it.

Also in-case if we want to update the swap limit for existing pods we are considering using UpdateContainerResources CRI method which is used by Inplace VPA.

Reviewer 3: +1 resizing swap. I think the goal of this kep should be: when a node's resources are hotplugged, the container's resources should be as close to what it would be if that was the initial state as possible, and any gaps should be both justified and very documented

Author: Sure, I have accounted the points discuss about updating swap and OOMScoreAdj in the KEP.

Reviewer 2: I do not see the update in the goals section. Maybe I am missing something

Author: We added a 3rd goal as 
```
* Recalculating and updating the OOMScoreAdj and swap memory limit for existing pods.
```

* Dynamically scale up the node by hot plugging  resources and without restarting the kubelet.
* Ability to reinitialize resource managers (CPU manager, memory manager) to adopt changes in node's resource.

### Non-Goals

* Dynamically adjust system reserved and kube reserved values.
* Hot unplug of node resources.

> * Update the autoscaler to utilize resource hot plugging.

Reviewer 2: why? Motivation is all about longer time and making sure that the API is designed correctly and will work for autoscaler in future is a very good indication whether we are doing the right thing.

In this release we are changing semantic of InPlace Pod resize API based on VPA team's feedback

Reviewer 3: agreed but it's not in the scope of in place KEP to actually update VPA. we can coordinate with that community without committing to the changes here.

Reviewer 4: Perhaps we can have a detail of what (APIs) VPA folks need and get their ack?

Author: Sure, I shall initiate a discussion in #sig-autoscaling slack channel to get their opinion.

Reviewer 7: At the moment the in-place work in the VPA is in development. We (mostly @maxcao13) has been working on that.
We have been tracking changes to the in-place KEP to ensure that the VPA in-place work will work with the latest API changes as needed. 

My assumption is that if Node Hot Plug doesn't change the in-place API, then we should be fine, but I have a feeling that @maxcao13 would be more qualified to answer that)

Reviewer 2: My comment is not about any conflicts with other KEPs. I think it is important to make sure that this KEP is not conflicting with scenarios that autoscaling may have. If we will have this KEP accepted and we are saying that cadisor is a source of truth, than it will be harder in future to introduce any APIs that control the node size from outside, for example.

Reviewer 8: I'd defer to @raywainman or @voelzmo but AFAIK, VPA shouldn't be affected. I was assuming this KEP comment:
> * Update the autoscaler to utilize resource hot plugging.

was referring to cluster-autoscaler (not VPA) and that Sergey was simply using the "feedback from VPA" example as an example of getting feedback from other sigs?

Reviewer 7: That's a good point. We should also check with cluster-autoscaler and Karpenter folks. 
I'll ping some folks in the slack thread (https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C09R1LV8S/p1738747505377179)

Reviewer 9: @towca @x13n 

At a glance, I don't think this KEP interferes with any of the existing VPA functionality.

Reviewer 2: > At a glance, I don't think this KEP interferes with any of the existing VPA functionality.

My question wasn't about VPA. Sorry, it seems that the context got muddied in this conversation. The question was about autoscaler in general, not the VPA part.

Would VPA desire APIs? Is `x` minutes a good delay to react on node changes? How often those changes can be happening for VPA and scheduler to react on those? Is there some API desired instead of having Node tell dynamically it's size?

Reviewer 10: One of the bigger issues with VPA currently is that it _doesn't know_ how big the Nodes are that a particular piece of workload could be scheduled on, so it makes decisions without taking Node size into account.
There are a few means to control this behavior, like specifying a `maxAllowed` threshold, controlling the maximum amount for a particular resource to be recommended. This threshold can either be configured globally for the entire vpa-recommender instance or on VPA (i.e. workload) level.
While this is not the best way to do it (ideally, there would be a way for VPA to discover the correct threshold for each workload), it is currently the only way to protect your workload from becoming un-schedulable.

This works to some extent, as long as a Node's capacity cannot be reduced. This method also loses some of its usefulness when a Node's capacity can be increased, because the currently set thresholds might be way too low.

Given how VPA currently works, I'm not sure what a solution for the story "As a cluster operator who is making use of node resource hot-plug, I wan't to protect my workload from becoming un-schedulable due to vertical scaling" would look like, tbh.

Reviewer 11: Karpenter autoscaling is one answer to node size: Karpenter will buy nodes that are the right size to run your workloads. Limits are still handy even if you have node autoscaling: if your Pods are leaking memory and using 10TiB of RAM soon after startup, automatic vertical scaling will start costing you dear when your cluster buys right-sized instances to run them on.

A future vertical autoscaler for Nodes may be able to buy and hot-plug additional memory, and VPA should "just work" if that mechanism is ever added.

There is an existing mechanism for restricting the range of resource requests and limits: [LimitRange](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/limit-range/). VPA should honor LimitRange where it can; if that doesn't already happen, _this_ KEP doesn't need to work around it. Any missing VPA features like that LimitRange integration should be handled through enhancement requests against VPA.

   will be rolled out gradually, beginning with an alpha release for testing and
   gathering feedback. This will be followed by beta and GA releases as the
   feature matures and potential problems and improvements are addressed.
2. Though the node resource is updated dynamically, the dynamic data is fetched from cAdvisor and its well integrated with kubelet.
3. Resource manager are updated to adapt to the dynamic node reconfigurations, Enough tests should be added to make sure its not affecting the existing functionalities.

## Design Details

Below diagram is shows the interaction between kubelet and cAdvisor.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant node
    participant kubelet
    participant cAdvisor-cache
    participant machine-info
    kubelet->>cAdvisor-cache: Poll
    cAdvisor-cache->>machine-info: fetch
    machine-info->>cAdvisor-cache: update
    cAdvisor-cache->>kubelet: update
    kubelet->>node: node status update
    kubelet->>node: re-initialize resource managers
```

The interaction sequence is as follows
1. Kubelet will be polling in interval to fetch the machine resource information from cAdvisor's cache, Which is currently updated every 5 minutes.

> 2. Kubelet's cache will be updated with the latest machine resource information.

Reviewer 2: what about cases when cadvisor reported max_int? or went back and forth reporting more and then less again?

Author: Currently since we rely on cAdvisor's cache its updated in 5 min interval by default and can be configured via cAdvisor flag `update_machine_info_interval`.
So any fluctuation within this interval does affect kubelet and the final value will be picked by kubelet.

In case of up-size and downsize in two consecutive intervals the Node object will be updated with the latest/actual machine info.

Reviewer 4: ok, but we kinda expect only upsizing events, this is implicit. So should we ever get downsizing events, how do we treat them?

Author: Currently we expect only up-size events.

But in-case of a downsize event also, The kubelet will report the updated/actual machine capacity and
In that case , any running pods consuming more than available resources will hit OOMKilled state.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this statement. So the side effect of this KEP will be that we can start OOM killing pods in case when cadvisor reported lower values? I thought this KEP is only about increasing sizes.

Author: Apologies, Let me try to bring more clarity on this regard. 

Yes, Though this KEP is about increasing node capacities, but I wanted to highlight known limitation that exist even in the current implementation incase of downsize of resource.

For example We have a node with 8G memory and pod running on the node consuming 6G, In case of downsize of memory of Node to 4G from the system side of things it still possible that the Pod will hit the OOM killed state.

Reviewer 4: Arguably processing downsizing events IS a form of handling hotunplug resources, so I don't think this is a good solution for this work. I think we need more investigation in this area and perhaps revisit how we fetch the data (cadvisor)

Reviewer 12: IIUC it would be beneficial to compare the new behavior with the current one.

> what about cases when cadvisor reported max_int? or went back and forth reporting more and then less again?

Can this happen today? Don't we just count on cadvisor to report initial valid data, then we simply ignore any changes to its cache? Can't we just ignore downsize events like we already do now?

Sorry if this doesn't make sense.

Reviewer 6: I concur that the case of downsizing needs to be more fully explored/explained. Because that can (and most probably will) happen in practice.

E.g. what happens for guaranteed pods if the cpus (or part of the cpus) they are pinned to go away. Are the managers handling this scenario correctly. What if the `--reserved-cpus` is not part of the new set of cpus.

Author: Added a section about Handling HotUnplug Events. As suggested we are planning to have a error mode to report the unplug events.

3. Node status updater will update the node's status with the latest resource information.
4. Kubelet will reinitialize the resource managers to keep them up to date with dynamic resource changes.

> Note: In case of increase in cluster resources, the scheduler will automatically schedule any pending pods.

Reviewer 2: are there caches in scheduler that will take time to be populated?

Author: We have event handler configured in scheduler: [Reference](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/scheduler/eventhandlers.go#L415-L422)
As a part of update it generates events for node allocatable changes: [Reference](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/scheduler/framework/events.go#L157-L173)

Some log snippets from PoC code
```
Kubelet

I0203 01:20:36.113803   16291 noderesource_manager.go:75] "Observed change in machine info

I0203 01:20:36.292626   16291 kubelet_node_status.go:710] "Recording event message for node" node="127.0.0.1" event="NodeHasSufficientMemory"

Schedueler

I0203 01:30:45.110577   16154 fit.go:399] "node was updated, and may now fit the pod's resource requests" pod="default/go-web-app-54b9497c79-5wjvj" node="127.0.0.1"
```

Reviewer 2: Can we get sig scheduling ACK on this KEP design?

Author: Sure, Reached out to SIG-Scheduling via slack to get their opinion https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C09TP78DV/p1739425555326269

> Note: In case of increase in cluster resources, the scheduler will automatically schedule any pending pods.

Reviewer 2: Is the increase of resources trustworthy? What if kubelet got restarted and now it believes that the node size is smaller while scheduler already has a new higher value? Should we change kubelet initialization to "trust" the API server more than cAdvisor?

Reviewer 3: shouldn't the kubelet attempt to update the node object in that case with the smaller value? ultimately we want the capacity to be right sized. if the scheduler thinks there's more memory than there is that won't help anyone

Reviewer 2: we really need to write down on what are the expectations and behaviors today. I am not sure that the assumptions that node can change it's size and everything will keep working normally is true today.

Reviewer 4: Big +1. The source of truth about machine data and its behavior (e.g. no downsizing events ever) is the cornerstone of this work and we need to be really careful here.

Reviewer 2: What you described may work. But I am not sure what kind of side effects it may have. Simply stating that this is a supported scenario is a KEP on it's own - identify which tests to run and documentation to update.

Author: Sure, We have identified few test scenarios and added them under Test Plan.

**Proposed Code changes**

**Dynamic Node Scale Up logic**

```go
	if utilfeature.DefaultFeatureGate.Enabled(features.NodeResourceHotPlug) {
		// Handle the node dynamic scale up
		machineInfo, err := kl.cadvisor.MachineInfo()
		if err != nil {
			klog.ErrorS(err, "Error fetching machine info")
		} else {
			cachedMachineInfo, _ := kl.GetCachedMachineInfo()

> 			if !reflect.DeepEqual(cachedMachineInfo, machineInfo) {

Reviewer 3: we don't need to debate this here, but are there other fields of machine info that may change more frequently? like timestamp of gathering for instance? we should make sure we're not needlessly churning

Author: Yeah, I will revisit and check for frequently changing values apart from actual resize values and update.

        .
        .
        // ResyncComponents will resyc the resource managers like cpu, memory and topology managers
	// with updated machineInfo
	ResyncComponents(machineInfo *cadvisorapi.MachineInfo) error
	.
	.
    )
```

2. Adding a method Sync to all the resource managers and will be invoked once there is dynamic resource change.

```go
        // Sync will sync the CPU Manager with the latest machine info
	Sync(machineInfo *cadvisorapi.MachineInfo) error
```

### Test Plan

[x] I/we understand the owners of the involved components may require updates to
existing tests to make this code solid enough prior to committing the changes necessary
to implement this enhancement.

##### Unit tests

1. Add necessary tests in kubelet_node_status_test.go to check for the node status behaviour with dynamic node scale up.
2. Add necessary tests in kubelet_pods_test.go to check for the pod cleanup and pod addition workflow.
3. Add necessary tests in eventhandlers_test.go to check for scheduler behaviour with dynamic node capacity change.
4. Add necessary tests in resource managers to check for managers behaviour to adopt dynamic node capacity change.

> ##### e2e tests

Author: Yeah, The running pods will continue to run and unaffected and Pending pods due to lack of resources should move into Running state after the hot plug of resources.
The prerequisite is that underlying VM should support resource hot plug.

> ##### e2e tests

Reviewer 4: @HirazawaUi yes, we will need a test like this, and very probably more than just one

are missing a bunch of machinery and tooling and can't do that now.
-->

It will be tested manually as a part of implementation and there will also be automated tests to cover the scenarios.

###### Is the rollout accompanied by any deprecations and/or removals of features, APIs, fields of API types, flags, etc.?

<!--
Even if applying deprecation policies, they may still surprise some users.
-->
No
### Monitoring Requirements

<!--
This section must be completed when targeting beta to a release.

For GA, this section is required: approvers should be able to confirm the
previous answers based on experience in the field.
-->

###### How can an operator determine if the feature is in use by workloads?

<!--
Ideally, this should be a metric. Operations against the Kubernetes API (e.g.,
checking if there are objects with field X set) may be a last resort. Avoid
logs or events for this purpose.
-->

This feature will be built into kubelet and behind a feature gate. Examining the kubelet feature gate would help 
in determining whether the feature is used. The enablement of the kubelet feature gate can be determined from the 
`kubernetes_feature_enabled` metric.

> 

Reviewer 3: I think also having a metric when the kubelet detects and updates the node object with more memory.

Author: Yeah, Thought about it while filling KEP.yaml metric field. Any suggestions for the metric name?

Reviewer 13: When an update fails, we also need a metric, such as when updating the node status or the resource manager fails.

Author: I will update it.

If enabling this feature causes performance degradation, its suggested not to hot plug resources and restart the kubelet
to manually to continue operation as before.

## Implementation History

<!--
Major milestones in the lifecycle of a KEP should be tracked in this section.
Major milestones might include:
- the `Summary` and `Motivation` sections being merged, signaling SIG acceptance
- the `Proposal` section being merged, signaling agreement on a proposed design
- the date implementation started
- the first Kubernetes release where an initial version of the KEP was available
- the version of Kubernetes where the KEP graduated to general availability
- when the KEP was retired or superseded
-->

## Drawbacks

<!--
Why should this KEP _not_ be implemented?
-->

## Alternatives

Existing and the alternative to this effort would be restarting the kubelet manually each time after the node resize.

<!--
What other approaches did you consider, and why did you rule them out? These do
not need to be as detailed as the proposal, but should include enough
information to express the idea and why it was not acceptable.

> -->

Reviewer 11: This KEP omits any intent to support hot unplug. But I think this is where we could mention simultaneously adding support for hot unplug and hot plug.

Even when we rule out an alternative thing, we still typically list it as an alternative if it sounds like a viable (less viable, but still feasible) option.

Author: Added a Future Work section at the bottom of the KEP or should I cover unplug at some other section?

 
This approach allows for more efficient resource management and quicker capacity adjustments, optimizing the utilization of existing hardware.
### Goals

* Achieve seamless node capacity expansion through hot plugging resources, all without necessitating a kubelet restart.
* Facilitate the reinitialization of resource managers (CPU manager, memory manager) to accommodate alterations in the node's resource allocation.

### Non-Goals

* Dynamically adjust system reserved and kube reserved values.
* Hot unplug of node resources.
* Update the autoscaler to utilize resource hot plugging.

## Proposal

This KEP strives to enable node resource hot plugging by incorporating a polling mechanism within the kubelet to retrieve machine-information from cAdvisor's cache, which is already updated periodically.
The kubelet will periodically fetch this information, subsequently entrusting the node status updater to disseminate these updates at the node level across the cluster.
Moreover, this KEP aims to refine the initialization and reinitialization processes of resource managers, including the memory manager and CPU manager, to ensure their adaptability to changes in node configurations.

> ### User Stories

Reviewer 4: stories seems a bit light into details, we can add maybe a couple real world examples about the flows we want to enable?

Author: I have revisited and made few more points under the section, Thanks

Reviewer 14: Can you add more details about hot-plugging resources? Does the hot-plugging always involve some admin work, either physical(plug additional hardware) or configuration(add resources by reconfiguring, e.g. add memory by reducing hugepages),  right? If so, we should assess increased code complexity (proposed solution) comparing to restarting `kubelet` (current solution), considering that the admin actions are still required for both cases.

Author: Yes, hot-plugging can be performed by the cluster admin either via hardware or software means(some details of hotplug is covered in Glossory, Please let us know if it needs further elaboration) however the current solution of restarting kubelet is merely a workaround.

Reviewer 14: I think some elaboration is still needed. From reading this KEP I've got an impression that the proposed solution is considered better than the current approach just because it's dynamic. Calling current one a workaround is not enough to justify it, I believe. Considering that cluster admins are involved in hot plugging anyway, we should compare existing approach (admin adds resources and restarts kubelet) with the proposed solution (admin adds resources and kubelet detects them) considering complexity added by the proposed solution.

Reviewer 15: If I understand correctly, there are two sets of admins involved in this scenario:
- **Infrastructure Admins** manage the infrastructure at the hardware level (servers, storage, and networking) and are responsible for the hot-plug operation.
- **Cluster Admins** focus on managing Kubernetes clusters and ensuring resource availability for workloads.

The current approach - resource hot-plugging followed by a Kubelet restart - is a two-step process that involves coordination between both roles. This increases operational overhead and complicates automation in dynamic environments. While it works, it does not scale well in clusters where hot-plugging happens frequently.

The proposed solution, where Kubelet dynamically detects and integrates hot-plugged resources, eliminates the need for a manual two-step process and avoids Kubelet restarts. This reduces disruption, simplifies operations, and improves resource management efficiency.

Reviewer 12: Another thought: is it dangerous to hotplug the node **without** restarting kubelet?
If it is, then ensuring the kubelet would restart can be considered as a stability enhancement.

#### Story 1

As a cluster admin, I must be able to increase the cluster resource capacity without adding a new node to the cluster.

#### Story 2

As a cluster admin, I must be able to increase the cluster resource capacity without need to restart the kubelet.

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

### Risks and Mitigations

1. Node resource hot plugging is an opt-in feature, merging the
   feature related changes won't impact existing workloads. Moreover, the feature
   will be rolled out gradually, beginning with an alpha release for testing and
   gathering feedback. This will be followed by beta and GA releases as the

>    feature matures and potential problems and improvements are addressed.

Reviewer 4: while this is true, this is technically true for every change governed by the KEP process.

Do we have more risks specific to this change to elaborate?
- code complixity?
- possible coordination (or lack thereof) with NRI plugins/runtime?

Author: Updated the risk and mitigation section please take a look, Thanks.

> 2. Though the node resource is updated dynamically, the dynamic data is fetched from cAdvisor and its well integrated with kubelet.

Reviewer 4: Where's the risk here?

> 3. Resource manager are updated to adapt to the dynamic node reconfigurations, Enough tests should be added to make sure its not affecting the existing functionalities.

Reviewer 4: what's the risk here? resource managers out of sync, which can lead to incorrect or rejected allocation, which can lead to underperforming or rejected workload?

    participant cAdvisor-cache
    participant machine-info
    kubelet->>cAdvisor-cache: Poll
    cAdvisor-cache->>machine-info: fetch
    machine-info->>cAdvisor-cache: update
    cAdvisor-cache->>kubelet: update
    kubelet->>node: node status update
    kubelet->>node: re-initialize resource managers
```

The interaction sequence is as follows
1. Kubelet will be polling in interval to fetch the machine resource information from cAdvisor's cache, Which is currently updated every 5 minutes.
2. Kubelet's cache will be updated with the latest machine resource information.
3. Node status updater will update the node's status with the latest resource information.
4. Kubelet will reinitialize the resource managers to keep them up to date with dynamic resource changes.

With increase in cluster resources the following components will updated

1. Scheduler
   * Scheduler will automatically schedule any pending pods.

2. Change in Swap Memory limit
   * Currently, the swap memory limit is calculated as 
 `(<containerMemoryRequest>/<nodeTotalMemory>)*<totalPodsSwapAvailable>`
   * So increase in nodeTotalMemory will result in updated swap memory limit.

3. Change in OOM score

>    * OOM score calculation depends on machine's memory, so the new OOM score will be updated accordingly.

Reviewer 4: does this mean iterating on every running container and potentially change their settings?

Author: No, With current behavior the OOM score will be updated for pods which are deployed post resize. 
Do you think we may have to recalculate OOM score for pods which were running before resize?

Reviewer 4: I think we should explore the options here, unless there are clear obvious reasons why _not_ updating the OOM score after a (potentially large) memory hotplug is the best way forward.

Author: We just ran some rough calculations for scenario that involves resizing node from 8G to 16G, Here are the observations
```
oom_score_adj formula: 1000 - (1000*containerMemReq)/memoryCapacity
```
1. Before resize where node has 8GB of memory.
```
Pod 1: 

Mem : 8GB 
Con: 4GB
OOM: 500

Pod 2:

Mem: 8GB 
Con: 2GB
OOM: 750

Pod 3:

Mem: 8GB 
Con: 1GB
OOM: 875
```
2.  Post resize to 16G with new set of pods with similar request
```
Pod 4:

Mem: 16GB 
Con: 4GB
OOM: 750

Pod 5:

Mem: 16GB 
Con: 2GB
OOM: 875
```
In the above scenario Pod 3 and Pod 5 more prone to be killed in the situation where there is memory pressure.

However if recalculate the oom_score_adj post resize for the pods that are existed before:
```
Pod 1: 

Mem :16GB 
Con: 4GB
OOM: 750

Pod 2:

Mem: 16GB 
Con: 2GB
OOM: 875

Pod 3:

Mem: 16GB 
Con: 1GB
OOM: 937.5
```
POD 3 likely to be killed first in-case of memory pressure.

Post resize without recalculation oom_score_adj, Newly created pods are more prone to eviction due to higher OOM score.

Please let us know there are any other possibilities that can help us in deciding if the recalculation of OOM score is necessary.

Reviewer 16: IMO we should evaluation how much of performance overhead will it be to recalculate the OOM score for all the running containers. We have an upper limit only on the number of pods (i.e. 110 pod per node).  Do we have any datapoints to figure out approximate maximum number of containers that can run on a node?

Reviewer 16: Let's list down the pros and cons of both approaches. Eg:
1. Recalculate oom score - pros: accuracy (elaborate on this); cons: performance overhead (is it worth it?). Note: race conditions could still result in inaccurate evictions.
2. updated oom score only for new pods : pros: efficient; cons: potential for incorrect eviction. 

This will help us decide which cons can we live with for this enhancement.

			cachedMachineInfo, _ := kl.GetCachedMachineInfo()
            // Avoid collector collects it as a timestamped metric
            // See PR #95210 and #97006 for more details.
                machineInfo.Timestamp = time.Time{}
			if !reflect.DeepEqual(cachedMachineInfo, machineInfo) {
				kl.setCachedMachineInfo(machineInfo)

				// Resync the resource managers
				if err := kl.ResyncComponents(machineInfo); err != nil {
					klog.ErrorS(err, "Error resyncing the kubelet components with machine info")
				}
			}
		}
	}
```

**Changes to resource managers to adapt to dynamic scale up of resources**

1. Adding ResyncComponents() method to ContainerManager interface
```go
    // Manages the containers running on a machine.
    type ContainerManager interface {
        .
        .
        // ResyncComponents will resyc the resource managers like cpu, memory and topology managers
	// with updated machineInfo
	ResyncComponents(machineInfo *cadvisorapi.MachineInfo) error
	.
	.
    )
```

2. Adding a method Sync to all the resource managers and will be invoked once there is dynamic resource change.

```go
        // SyncMachineInfo will sync the Manager with the latest machine info

>         SyncMachineInfo(machineInfo *cadvisorapi.MachineInfo) error

Reviewer 4: we need to discuss if this should or should not cause a workload rebalance. I think no, but this should be elaborated in the KEP.

```

### Test Plan

[x] I/we understand the owners of the involved components may require updates to
existing tests to make this code solid enough prior to committing the changes necessary
to implement this enhancement.

##### Unit tests

1. Add necessary tests in kubelet_node_status_test.go to check for the node status behaviour with dynamic node scale up.
2. Add necessary tests in kubelet_pods_test.go to check for the pod cleanup and pod addition workflow.
3. Add necessary tests in eventhandlers_test.go to check for scheduler behaviour with dynamic node capacity change.
4. Add necessary tests in resource managers to check for managers behaviour to adopt dynamic node capacity change.

##### e2e tests

Following scenarios need to be covered:

> * Node resource information before and after resource hot plug.

Reviewer 4: treating of `upsize -> downsize`  and `upsize -> downsize -> upsize` and `downsize` and `downsize->upsize` event sequence

### Goals

* Achieve seamless node capacity expansion through hot plugging resources.
* Facilitate the reinitialization of resource managers (CPU manager, memory manager) to accommodate alterations in the node's resource allocation.

### Non-Goals

* Dynamically adjust system reserved and kube reserved values.
* Hot unplug of node resources.
* Update the autoscaler to utilize resource hot plugging.
* Re-balance workloads across the nodes.
* Update runtime/NRI plugins with host resource changes.

## Proposal

This KEP strives to enable node resource hot plugging by incorporating a polling mechanism within the kubelet to retrieve machine-information from cAdvisor's cache, which is already updated periodically.
The kubelet will periodically fetch this information, subsequently entrusting the node status updater to disseminate these updates at the node level across the cluster.
Moreover, this KEP aims to refine the initialization and reinitialization processes of resource managers, including the memory manager and CPU manager, to ensure their adaptability to changes in node configurations.

### User Stories

#### Story 1

> As a Kubernetes user, I want to resize nodes with existing specialized hardware (such as GPUs, FPGAs, TPUs, etc.)  or CPU Capabilities (for example:https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/v5.8/arm64/elf_hwcaps.html) 

Author: This KEP only focuses on native resources (CPU, Memory) and how it can be resized to leverage the specialized hardware, I have updated the user story to bring more clarity.

- [ ] (R) Production readiness review completed
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review approved
- [ ] "Implementation History" section is up-to-date for milestone
- [ ] User-facing documentation has been created in [kubernetes/website], for publication to [kubernetes.io]
- [ ] Supporting documentation—e.g., additional design documents, links to mailing list discussions/SIG meetings, relevant PRs/issues, release notes

<!--
**Note:** This checklist is iterative and should be reviewed and updated every time this enhancement is being considered for a milestone.
-->

[kubernetes.io]: https://kubernetes.io/
[kubernetes/enhancements]: https://git.k8s.io/enhancements
[kubernetes/kubernetes]: https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes
[kubernetes/website]: https://git.k8s.io/website

## Glossary

hotplug: dynamically add compute resources (CPU, memory) to the node, either via software (online offlined resources) or via hardware (physical additions while the system is running)

hotunplug: dynamically remove compute resources (CPU, memory) to the node, either via software (make resources go offline) or via hardware (physical removal while the system is running)

## Summary

> The proposal seeks to facilitate hot plugging of node compute resources, thereby streamlining cluster resource capacity updates through node compute resource resizing, rather than introducing new nodes to the cluster.

Reviewer 14: I'd propose to explicitly mention which compute resources are in the scope of this KEP. BTW, are hugepages included or only CPU and memory?

Reviewer 4: thanks for pointing this out. I must admit I assumed yes, better to be explicit though

Author: Sure, I will update it to include.
Since we are using cAdvisor and it does [include](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/3fba9930b72f78b53fb83b0d533a426080c0f92e/vendor/github.com/google/cadvisor/info/v1/machine.go#L180-L243) cpu, memory, HugePages and swap capacity.

The revised node configurations will be automatically propagated at both the node and cluster levels.
Furthermore, this proposal intends to enhance the initialization and reinitialization processes of resource managers, including the CPU manager and memory manager, in response to alterations in a node's CPU and memory configurations.
This approach aims to optimize resource management, improve scalability, and minimize disruptions to cluster operations.

## Motivation
Currently, the node's configurations are recorded solely during the kubelet bootstrap phase and subsequently cached. assuming the node's compute capacity remains unchanged throughout the cluster's lifecycle.

However, contemporary kernel capabilities enable the dynamic addition of CPUs and memory to a node (References: https://docs.kernel.org/core-api/cpu_hotplug.html and https://docs.kernel.org/core-api/memory-hotplug.html). 

> This can result in Kubernetes being unaware of the node's altered compute capacities during a live-resize, causing the node to retain outdated information. 

Author: Its applicable across all environments, I have updated to include the environments and architecture.

> This can lead to inconsistencies or an imbalance in the cluster, affecting the optimal scheduling and deployment of workloads.

Author: Thanks for the suggestions. I have mentioned couple of points which highlights the downsides of restarting kubelet.

Moreover, this KEP aims to refine the initialization and reinitialization processes of resource managers, including the memory manager and CPU manager, to ensure their adaptability to changes in node configurations.
With this proposal its also necessary to recalculate and update OOMScoreAdj and swap limit for the pods that had been existing before resize and tradeoff between performance overhead and OOMScoreAdj and swap limit correctness.

Update in OOMScoreAdjust and swap limit
    - The recalculation will help the existing pods to be closer to the expected value post-resize but carries an inherent overhead on the kubelet.

Not Updating OOMScoreAdjust and swap limit
    - Efficient, We can avoid the performance overhead required for recalculating the scores and may lead to incorrect eviction, with new pods being evicted as OOMScoreAdj will be high.

### User Stories

#### Story 1

As a Kubernetes user, I want to allocate more resources (CPU, memory) to a node with existing specialized hardware (such as GPUs, FPGAs, TPUs, etc.) or CPU Capabilities (for example:https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/v5.8/arm64/elf_hwcaps.html) 

> so that additional workloads can leverage the hardware to be efficiently scheduled and run without manual intervention.

Author: What we are trying to convey here is If there exist a node which is already configured with specialized hardware by supported mechanism but if further workloads can't be scheduled due to lack of native resources like CPU or memory then, this enhancement would help to increase the capacity, so we need not configure the additional node with same specialized hardware again.

#### Story 2

As a Kubernetes Application Developer, I want the kernel to optimize system performance by making better use of local resources when a node is resized, so that my applications run faster with fewer disruptions. This is achieved when there are
Fewer Context Switches: With more CPU cores and memory on a resized node, the kernel has a better chance to spread workloads out efficiently. This can reduce contention between processes, leading to fewer context switches (which can be costly in terms of CPU time) 
and less process interference and also reduces latency.
Better Memory Allocation: If the kernel has more memory available, it can allocate larger contiguous memory blocks, which can lead to better memory locality (i.e., keeping related data closer in physical memory), 

> reducing latency for applications that rely on large datasets, in the case of a database applications.

Author: Thanks that a really good suggestion updated to include few issues caused by node reboots and kubelet restarts.

#### Story 3

As a Site Reliability Engineer (SRE), I want to reduce the operational complexity of managing multiple worker nodes, so that I can focus on fewer resources and simplify troubleshooting and monitoring.

#### Story 4

As a Cluster administrator, I want to resize a Kubernetes node dynamically, so that I can quickly hot plug resources without waiting for new nodes to join the cluster.

> 

Author: so the intention behind this story is restarting kubelet or rebooting node is an workaround and supported or recommended way is to add a new node to cluster. The time taken for adding new node will be higher compared to updating the existing node.

> 

Reviewer 14: I wouldn't call it a workaround. It's hard to believe that at the time Kubernetes was designed hot-plugging(or even simpler things like reconfiguring hugepages) was something people were completely unaware of. So, I think it's a conscious design decision, most probably aimed to decrease Kubernetes complexity. So, this KEP should show that complexity added by it worth it.

> 

Author: There were few issues surrounding kubelet/node restart which has been captured here https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/7a0d3d047448b30161b9ca3a74b18eb87e420b7e/keps/sig-node/3953-node-resource-hot-plug/README.md?plain=1#L115-L118.
Additionally,
1. It can be possible that the underlying infrastructure takes a while to update the new capacity and online/offline the corresponding resources. In such cases, it can be tricky for an administrator to time restarting the kubelet.
2. In a case where there can be several nodes that have been resized, restarting kubelet post resize can be a little tedious (unless there exists some hacky script that can do the restart in parallel).
3. In a situation where there are frequent resizing operations being done, restarting kubelet be highly repetitive.
4. Manual intervention can bring in an angle of human errors, where one can miss to restart post resize.

<!--
Pick one of these and delete the rest.

Documentation is available on [feature gate lifecycle] and expectations, as
well as the [existing list] of feature gates.

[feature gate lifecycle]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/feature-gates.md
[existing list]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/
-->

- [x] Feature gate (also fill in values in `kep.yaml`)
    - Feature gate name:NodeResourceHotPlug
    - Components depending on the feature gate: kubelet
- [ ] Other
    - Describe the mechanism:
    - Will enabling / disabling the feature require downtime of the control
      plane?
    - Will enabling / disabling the feature require downtime or reprovisioning
      of a node?

###### Does enabling the feature change any default behavior?

No. This feature is guarded by a feature gate. Existing default behavior does not change if the
feature is not used. 
Even if the feature is enabled via feature gate, If there is no change in 
node configuration the system will continue to work in the same way.

###### Can the feature be disabled once it has been enabled (i.e. can we roll back the enablement)?

> Yes. Once disabled any hot plug of resources won't reflect at the cluster level. 

Reviewer 17: Please describe this process.  I think it requires restarting at least the kubelet?  When the kubelet restarts, can it be in a state where pods are running that wouldn't be running otherwise?  What does the kubelet do about this?

Author: sure, I will update and we need to turn off the feature gate and restart the kubelet.
also could you please help me understand on what reason you are suspecting pods to turn into running from pending post kubelet restart?

###### What happens if we reenable the feature if it was previously rolled back?

> If the feature is reenabled again, the node resources can be hot plugged in again. Cluster will be automatically updated

Author: sure, I will update, Yes its kubelet flag only and one needs to turn on the featuregate and restart kubelet binary and no need to restart the node.

If there is significant increase in `node_resize_resync_errors_total` metric means the feature is not working as expected.
In case of pending pods and hot plug of resource but still there is no change `scheduler_pending_pods` metric
means the feature is not working as expected.

###### Were upgrade and rollback tested? Was the upgrade->downgrade->upgrade path tested?

<!--
Describe manual testing that was done and the outcomes.
Longer term, we may want to require automated upgrade/rollback tests, but we
are missing a bunch of machinery and tooling and can't do that now.
-->

It will be tested manually as a part of implementation and there will also be automated tests to cover the scenarios.

###### Is the rollout accompanied by any deprecations and/or removals of features, APIs, fields of API types, flags, etc.?

<!--
Even if applying deprecation policies, they may still surprise some users.
-->
No
### Monitoring Requirements

<!--
This section must be completed when targeting beta to a release.

For GA, this section is required: approvers should be able to confirm the
previous answers based on experience in the field.
-->

Monitor the metrics
- `node_resize_resync_request_total`

> - `node_resize_resync_errors_total`

Author: `node_resize_resync_errors_total` reflects the error when during reinitialize the resource managers or errors during updating swap/oomScoreAdj values.
Please let me know if its suggested to have separate metrics for each of the components or if a generic one would suffice.

The proposal seeks to facilitate hot plugging of node compute resources(CPU, Memory, Swap Capacity and HugePages), thereby streamlining cluster resource capacity updates through node compute resource resizing rather than introducing new nodes to the cluster.
The revised node configurations will be automatically propagated at both the node and cluster levels.

Furthermore, this proposal intends to enhance the initialization and reinitialization processes of resource managers, including the CPU manager and memory manager, in response to alterations in a node's CPU and memory configurations and 
aims to optimize resource management, improve scalability, and minimize disruptions to cluster operations.

## Motivation
Currently, the node's resource configurations are recorded solely during the kubelet bootstrap phase and subsequently cached, assuming the node's compute capacity remains unchanged throughout the cluster's lifecycle.
In a conventional Kubernetes environment, the cluster resources might necessitate modification because of inaccurate resource allocation during cluster initialization or escalating workload over time, 
necessitating supplementary resources within the cluster.

> Contemporarily, kernel capabilities enable the dynamic addition of CPUs and memory to a node (References: https://docs.kernel.org/core-api/cpu_hotplug.html and https://docs.kernel.org/core-api/memory-hotplug.html).

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
Contemporarily, kernel capabilities enable the dynamic addition of CPUs and memory to a node (for example: https://docs.kernel.org/core-api/cpu_hotplug.html and https://docs.kernel.org/core-api/memory-hotplug.html).
```
Linux is not the only game in town.

to be force migrated to a different node, causing a temporary spike in the CPU/Memory utilisation which is undesirable.

With the current state of implementation in the Kubernetes realm, the available workarounds to allow the cluster to be aware of the changes in the cluster's capacity is by 
restarting the node or at-least restarting the kubelet, which does not have a certain set of best-practices to follow.

However, this approach does carry a few drawbacks such as
 - Introducing a downtime for the existing/to-be-scheduled workloads on the cluster until the node is available.
 - Necessity to reconfigure the underlying services post node-reboot.
 - Managing the associated nuances that a kubelet restart or node reboot carries such as
   - https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/109595
   - https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/119645
   - https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/125579
   - https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/127793

Hence, it is necessary to handle the updates in the compute capacity in a graceful fashion across the cluster, than adopting to reset the cluster components to achieve the same.

> Also, given that the capability to live-resize a node exists in the kernel, enabling the kubelet to be aware of the underlying changes in the node's compute capacity will mitigate any actions that are required to be made
> by the Kubernetes administrator.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
Also, given that the capability to live-resize a node exists in the Linux and Windows kernels, enabling the kubelet to be aware of the underlying changes in the node's compute capacity will mitigate any actions that are required to be made
by the Kubernetes administrator.
```

Node resource hot plugging proves advantageous in scenarios such as:
- Efficiently managing resource demands with a limited number of nodes by increasing the capacity of existing nodes instead of provisioning new ones.
- The procedure of establishing new nodes is considerably more time-intensive than expanding the capabilities of current nodes.
- Improved inter-pod network latencies as the inter-node traffic can be reduced if more pods can be hosted on a single node.
- Easier to manage the cluster with fewer nodes, which brings less overhead on the control-plane
- Mitigate a few of the existing limitations/issues that are associated with a node/kubelet restart.

Implementing this KEP will empower nodes to recognize and adapt to changes in their compute configurations and allow facilitating the efficient and effective deployment of pod workloads to nodes capable of meeting the required compute demands.

### Goals

> 

Author: No, We wont be adjusting ResourceQuota.

> 

Reviewer 14: Please explain why in the KEP, thanks!

The kubelet will periodically fetch this information, subsequently entrusting the node status updater to disseminate these updates at the node level across the cluster.
Moreover, this KEP aims to refine the initialization and reinitialization processes of resource managers, including the memory manager and CPU manager, to ensure their adaptability to changes in node configurations.
With this proposal its also necessary to recalculate and update OOMScoreAdj and swap limit for the pods that had been existing before resize and tradeoff between performance overhead and OOMScoreAdj and swap limit correctness.

Update in OOMScoreAdjust and swap limit
    - The recalculation will help the existing pods to be closer to the expected value post-resize but carries an inherent overhead on the kubelet.

Not Updating OOMScoreAdjust and swap limit
    - Efficient, We can avoid the performance overhead required for recalculating the scores and may lead to incorrect eviction, with new pods being evicted as OOMScoreAdj will be high.

### User Stories

> 

Reviewer 11: None of these stories mentions paging / swap. Can we change that?

Author: Updated User Story 2 to mention about advantages of change in paging and swap.

#### Story 1

As a Kubernetes user, I want to allocate more resources (CPU, memory) to a node with existing specialized hardware or CPU Capabilities (for example:https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/v5.8/arm64/elf_hwcaps.html)

> so that additional workloads can leverage the hardware to be efficiently scheduled and run without manual intervention.

Reviewer 11: Is there a non-functional requirement that you want to do this without a reboot?

Author: Yes, we would want to update the node capacity in a streamlined fashion without causing any disruption to any existing workloads.

detect the change in compute capacity, which can bring in additional complications.

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

### Risks and Mitigations

- Change in OOMScoreAdjust value:
    - The formula to calculate OOMScoreAdjust is `1000 - (1000*containerMemReq)/memoryCapacity`
    - With change in memoryCapacity post up-scale, The existing OOMScoreAdjust may not be inline with the
      actual OOMScoreAdjust for existing pods.
        - This can be mitigated by recalculating the OOMScoreAdjust value for the existing pods. However, there can be an associated overhead for
          recalculating the scores.
- Change in Swap limit:
    - The formula to calculate the swap limit is `<containerMemoryRequest>/<nodeTotalMemory>)*<totalPodsSwapAvailable>`
    - With change in nodeTotalMemory and totalPodsSwapAvailable post up-scale, The existing swap limit may not be inline with the
      actual swap limit for existing pods.
        - This can be mitigated by recalculating the swap limit for the existing pods. However, there can be an associated overhead for

>           recalculating the scores.

Reviewer 12: Which overhead are you referring to here?
IIUC there might be some overhead from the CRI side, but the limit calculation itself should be very very quick. AFAICT the CRI operation shouldn't be heavy as well, since it only writes a single value to a cgrpoupfs file per container.

Author: Yes, you are right. Just wanted to mention this overhead in the KEP thought it may be insignificant.

2. Kubelet's cache will be updated with the latest machine resource information.
3. Node status updater will update the node's status with the latest resource information.
4. Kubelet will reinitialize the resource managers to keep them up to date with dynamic resource changes.
5. Kubelet will recalculate and update the OOMScoreAdj and swap limit for the existing pods.

With increase in cluster resources the following components will be updated

1. Scheduler
   * Scheduler will automatically schedule any pending pods.

2. Update in Node allocatable capacity.

3. Resource managers will re-initialised.

4. Change in OOM score adjust
    * Currently, the OOM score adjust is calculated by
      `1000 - (1000*containerMemReq)/memoryCapacity`
    * Increase in memoryCapacity will result in updated OOM score adjust for pods deployed post resize and also recalculate the same for existing pods.

5. Change in Swap Memory limit
   * Currently, the swap memory limit is calculated by 
 `(<containerMemoryRequest>/<nodeTotalMemory>)*<totalPodsSwapAvailable>`

>    * Increase in nodeTotalMemory will result in updated swap memory limit for pods deployed post resize and also recalculate the same for existing pods.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
   * Increase in nodeTotalMemory or totalPodsSwapAvailable will result in updated swap memory limit for pods deployed post resize and also recalculate the same for existing pods.
```

by the Kubernetes administrator.

Node resource hot plugging proves advantageous in scenarios such as:
- Efficiently managing resource demands with a limited number of nodes by increasing the capacity of existing nodes instead of provisioning new ones.
- The procedure of establishing new nodes is considerably more time-intensive than expanding the capabilities of current nodes.
- Improved inter-pod network latencies as the inter-node traffic can be reduced if more pods can be hosted on a single node.
- Easier to manage the cluster with fewer nodes, which brings less overhead on the control-plane
- Mitigate a few of the existing limitations/issues that are associated with a node/kubelet restart.

Implementing this KEP will empower nodes to recognize and adapt to changes in their compute configurations and allow facilitating the efficient and effective deployment of pod workloads to nodes capable of meeting the required compute demands.

### Goals

* Achieve seamless node capacity expansion through hot plugging resources.
* Enable the re-initialization of resource managers (CPU manager, memory manager) to accommodate alterations in the node's resource allocation.

> * Recalculating the OOMScoreAdj and swap memory limit for existing pods.

Reviewer 2: would those two result in a new CRI API calls? Which ones?

Author: We decided to use `UpdateContainerResources` CRI method for updating both OOMScoreAdj and Swap, Initial plan is to serially update the containers across Pods.
Incase of errors to have retry mechanism like SynchPod.

Author: Sure definitely, We will update the KEP with more information.

* Re-balance workloads across the nodes.
* Update runtime/NRI plugins with host resource changes.

## Proposal

This KEP strives to enable node resource hot plugging by incorporating a polling mechanism within the kubelet to retrieve machine-information from cAdvisor's cache, which is already updated periodically.
The kubelet will periodically fetch this information, subsequently entrusting the node status updater to disseminate these updates at the node level across the cluster.
Moreover, this KEP aims to refine the initialization and reinitialization processes of resource managers, including the memory manager and CPU manager, to ensure their adaptability to changes in node configurations.
With this proposal its also necessary to recalculate and update OOMScoreAdj and swap limit for the pods that had been existing before resize and tradeoff between performance overhead and OOMScoreAdj and swap limit correctness.

Update in OOMScoreAdjust and swap limit
    - The recalculation will help the existing pods to be closer to the expected value post-resize but carries an inherent overhead on the kubelet.

Not Updating OOMScoreAdjust and swap limit

>     - Efficient, We can avoid the performance overhead required for recalculating the scores and may lead to incorrect eviction, with new pods being evicted as OOMScoreAdj will be high.

Author: We proposed to update both OOMScoreAdj and swamp and also I have updated the KEP to bring more clarity thanks.

    * Increase in memoryCapacity will result in updated OOM score adjust for pods deployed post resize and also recalculate the same for existing pods.

5. Change in Swap Memory limit
   * Currently, the swap memory limit is calculated by 
 `(<containerMemoryRequest>/<nodeTotalMemory>)*<totalPodsSwapAvailable>`
   * Increase in nodeTotalMemory or totalPodsSwapAvailable will result in updated swap memory limit for pods deployed post resize and also recalculate the same for existing pods.

**Proposed Code changes**

**Pseudocode for Resource Hotplug**

```go
	if utilfeature.DefaultFeatureGate.Enabled(features.NodeResourceHotPlug) {
		// Handle the node dynamic scale up
		machineInfo, err := kl.cadvisor.MachineInfo()
		if err != nil {
			klog.ErrorS(err, "Error fetching machine info")
		} else {
			cachedMachineInfo, _ := kl.GetCachedMachineInfo()
            // Avoid collector collects it as a timestamped metric
            // See PR #95210 and #97006 for more details.
                machineInfo.Timestamp = time.Time{}
			if !reflect.DeepEqual(cachedMachineInfo, machineInfo) {
				kl.setCachedMachineInfo(machineInfo)

				// Resync the resource managers

> 				if err := kl.containerManager.ResyncComponents(machineInfo); err != nil {

Reviewer 6: You probably have captured this in the actual code, but I think the kubelet runtime manager needs to be synced in a similar fashion. Should we capture this in the KEP?

Author: Yeah, I have tried something like [this](https://github.com/Karthik-K-N/kubernetes/blob/hot-plug/pkg/kubelet/kuberuntime/kuberuntime_container_linux.go#L138-L140) in PoC, May be I will update the KEP to mention the same. Thanks

Hotunplug: Dynamically remove compute resources (CPU, Memory, Swap Capacity and HugePages) to the node, either via software (make resources go offline) or via hardware (physical removal while the system is running)

## Summary

The proposal seeks to facilitate hot plugging of node compute resources(CPU, Memory, Swap Capacity and HugePages), thereby streamlining cluster resource capacity updates through node compute resource resizing rather than introducing new nodes to the cluster.
The revised node configurations will be automatically propagated at both the node and cluster levels.

Furthermore, this proposal intends to enhance the initialization and reinitialization processes of resource managers, including the CPU manager and memory manager, in response to alterations in a node's CPU and memory configurations and 
aims to optimize resource management, improve scalability, and minimize disruptions to cluster operations.

## Motivation
Currently, the node's resource configurations are recorded solely during the kubelet bootstrap phase and subsequently cached, assuming the node's compute capacity remains unchanged throughout the cluster's lifecycle.

> In a conventional Kubernetes environment, the cluster resources might necessitate modification because of inaccurate resource allocation during cluster initialization or escalating workload over time, 
> necessitating supplementary resources within the cluster.

Reviewer 18: ```suggestion
In a conventional Kubernetes environment, cluster resources might need modification because of inaccurate resource allocation or due to escalating workloads over time, requiring supplementary resources within the cluster.
```

> Contemporarily, kernel capabilities enable the dynamic addition of CPUs and memory to a node (for example: https://docs.kernel.org/core-api/cpu_hotplug.html and https://docs.kernel.org/core-api/memory-hotplug.html).

Reviewer 19: We tried Node resizing with hot plug/unplug in GKE and noticed some components don't handle onlining of previously offlined CPUs well, e.g. Cilium not listening to perf events on the newly onlined CPUs. We also found other libraries that could be affected. We later switched to cgroups limiting on the guest + VMM-level throtling as a more reliable alternative.

I treat Node resizing as still a research space so I want to make sure there's an API for telling Kubelet what should be the current resources, as opposed to it discovering it on its own. It's what we discussed in the past with a new API for NRI plugins. This way hotplugging could be the default implementation, but replaceable with other solutions.

Author: Agreed, May be once we have some concrete resource API for kubelet , We can consider switching over to an option of swapping alternatives in the future if required without disrupting the overall system.

by the Kubernetes administrator.

Node resource hot plugging proves advantageous in scenarios such as:
- Efficiently managing resource demands with a limited number of nodes by increasing the capacity of existing nodes instead of provisioning new ones.
- The procedure of establishing new nodes is considerably more time-intensive than expanding the capabilities of current nodes.
- Improved inter-pod network latencies as the inter-node traffic can be reduced if more pods can be hosted on a single node.
- Easier to manage the cluster with fewer nodes, which brings less overhead on the control-plane
- Mitigate a few of the existing limitations/issues that are associated with a node/kubelet restart.

Implementing this KEP will empower nodes to recognize and adapt to changes in their compute configurations and allow facilitating the efficient and effective deployment of pod workloads to nodes capable of meeting the required compute demands.

### Goals

* Achieve seamless node capacity expansion through hot plugging resources.

> * Enable the re-initialization of resource managers (CPU manager, memory manager) and kube runtime manager to accommodate alterations in the node's resource allocation.

Author: No, hotplug only supplements additional CPUs rather than re-assigning new set of reuired CPUs.

* Recalculating and updating the OOMScoreAdj and swap memory limit for existing pods.

### Non-Goals

> * Dynamically adjust system reserved and kube reserved values.

Author: Some background about have it in non-goal: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KfjPRmCc8Xk0xxa4S8ZRle6VMzc1C6MQg4ivOaoB150/edit?disco=AAABVzcLYu4

> * Dynamically adjust system reserved and kube reserved values.

Author: With our exploration we identified that the ratio can vary across different providers or flavors of Kubernetes offerings. For example in GKE its calculated as https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/plan-node-sizes

Is it suggested standardize this formula and may be override  them later by the downstream controllers?

> * Dynamically adjust system reserved and kube reserved values.

Reviewer 5: Kind of agree that theses values are set and calculated by individual vendors/clouds today. It's not so meaningful to include some standard formula and adjust them automatically.

But we can discuss how someone can change this on-the-fly if needed to, and maybe provide some knobs to do so.

The kubelet will periodically fetch this information, subsequently entrusting the node status updater to disseminate these updates at the node level across the cluster.
Moreover, this KEP aims to refine the initialization and reinitialization processes of resource managers, including the memory manager and CPU manager, to ensure their adaptability to changes in node configurations.
With this proposal its also necessary to recalculate and update OOMScoreAdj and swap limit for the pods that had been existing before resize. But this carries small overhead due to recalculation of swap and OOMScoreAdj.

### Handling HotUnplug Events

Though this KEP focuses only on resource hotplug, It will enable the kubelet to capture the current available capacity of the node (Regardless of whether it was a hotplug or hotunplug of resources.)
For now, we will introduce an error mode in the kubelet to inform users about the shrink in the available resources in case of hotunplug.

Few of the concerns surrounding hotunplug are listed below

> * Pod re-admission:

Author: Noted, But we may need to evaluate resource availability for already running pods, hence running podReAdmission is necessary. Ref: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KfjPRmCc8Xk0xxa4S8ZRle6VMzc1C6MQg4ivOaoB150/edit?disco=AAAAt7P2DTA

> * Pod re-admission:

Reviewer 20: FYI, eviction is a topic in itself, especially being able to assess what would be an impact on affected workflows and how to migrate pods with as little impact as possible. But all of it is well described in KEP-4563 (https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4565).

    * Given that there is probability that the current Pod resource usage may exceed the available capacity of node, its necessary to check if the pod can continue Running
      or if it has to be terminated due to resource crunch.
* Recalculate OOM adjust score and Swap limits:
    * Since the total capacity of the node has changed, values associated with the nodes memory capacity must be recomputed.
* Handling unplug of reserved CPUs.

> we intend to propose a separate KEP dedicated to hotunplug of resources to address the same.

Reviewer 18: ```suggestion
We intend to propose a separate KEP dedicated to hotunplug of resources to address that.
```

  - Hotplug events are captured via periodic polling by the kubelet, this ensures that the capacity is updated in the poll cycle and can technically not miss the event/fail to handle a flood of events.

- Handling downsize events
  - Though there is no support through this KEP to handle an event of node-downsize, it's the onus of the cluster administrator to resize responsibly to avoid disruption as it lies out of the kubernetes realm.
  - However, enabling this feature will ensure that the correct resource information is pushed across the cluster.

## Design Details

Below diagram is shows the interaction between kubelet, node and cAdvisor.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant node
    participant kubelet
    participant cAdvisor-cache
    participant machine-info
    kubelet->>cAdvisor-cache: Poll
    cAdvisor-cache->>machine-info: fetch
    machine-info->>cAdvisor-cache: update
    cAdvisor-cache->>kubelet: update
    kubelet->>node: node status update
    kubelet->>node: re-initialize resource managers
    kubelet->>node: Recalculate and update OOMScoreAdj <br> and Swap limit of pods
```

The interaction sequence is as follows

> 1. Kubelet will be polling in interval to fetch the machine resource information from cAdvisor's cache, Which is currently updated every 5 minutes.

Reviewer 19: Note that with an external signal about the current VM size coming from NRI Kubelet could maybe react within ~1s as opposed to the current 5 minutes of cadvisor cache refresh (see my comment in Motivation).

Author: True, but cAdvisor is currently using default poll interval of 5 min, which can be customized through `update_machine_info_interval` for aggressive polling. On the similar lines, if needed we can customize poling interval in kubelet through a flag.

Author: Sure, we will explore and update as per your suggestion https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/3955#discussion_r1955119053

with the new resource information. If there are any pending pods due to lack of resources they will turn into
running state.

###### Are there any tests for feature enablement/disablement?

Yes, the tests will be added along with alpha implementation.
* Validate the hot plug of resource to machine is updated at the node resource level.
* Validate the hot plug of resource made the pending pods to transition into running state.
* Validate the resource managers are update with the latest machine information after hot plug of resources.

### Rollout, Upgrade and Rollback Planning

<!--
This section must be completed when targeting beta to a release.
-->

###### How can a rollout or rollback fail? Can it impact already running workloads?

<!--
Try to be as paranoid as possible - e.g., what if some components will restart
mid-rollout?

Be sure to consider highly-available clusters, where, for example,
feature flags will be enabled on some API servers and not others during the
rollout. Similarly, consider large clusters and how enablement/disablement
will rollout across nodes.
-->

Rollout may fail if the resource managers are not re-synced properly due to programmatic errors.

> In case of rollout failures, running workloads are not affected, If the pods are on pending state they remain
> in the pending state only.

Reviewer 18: ```suggestion
In case of rollout failures, running workloads are not affected. If pods are in the pending state, they remain pending.
```

- Improved inter-pod network latencies as the inter-node traffic can be reduced if more pods can be hosted on a single node.
- Easier to manage the cluster with fewer nodes, which brings less overhead on the control-plane
- Mitigate a few of the existing limitations/issues that are associated with a node/kubelet restart.

Implementing this KEP will empower nodes to recognize and adapt to changes in their compute configurations and allow facilitating the efficient and effective deployment of pod workloads to nodes capable of meeting the required compute demands.

### Goals

* Achieve seamless node capacity expansion through hot plugging resources.
* Enable the re-initialization of resource managers (CPU manager, memory manager) and kube runtime manager to accommodate alterations in the node's resource allocation.
* Recalculating and updating the OOMScoreAdj and swap memory limit for existing pods.

### Non-Goals

* Dynamically adjust system reserved and kube reserved values.
* Hot unplug of node resources.
* Update the autoscaler to utilize resource hot plugging.
* Re-balance workloads across the nodes.
* Update runtime/NRI plugins with host resource changes.

## Proposal

> This KEP strives to enable node resource hot plugging by incorporating a polling mechanism within the kubelet to retrieve machine-information from cAdvisor's cache, which is already updated periodically.

Author: Sure thank you for the idea. So inclined to polling in Kubelet as it was existing design in cAdvisor.
We will surely explore this path.

        - This can be mitigated by recalculating the OOMScoreAdjust value for the existing pods. However, there can be an associated overhead for
          recalculating the scores.
- Change in Swap limit:
    - The formula to calculate the swap limit is `<containerMemoryRequest>/<nodeTotalMemory>)*<totalPodsSwapAvailable>`
    - With change in nodeTotalMemory and totalPodsSwapAvailable post up-scale, The existing swap limit may not be inline with the
      actual swap limit for existing pods.
        - This can be mitigated by recalculating the swap limit for the existing pods. However, there can be an associated overhead for
          recalculating the scores.

- Post up-scale any failure in resync of Resource managers may be lead to incorrect or rejected allocation, which can lead to underperformed or rejected workload.
  - To mitigate the risks adequate tests should be added to avoid the scenarios where failure to resync resource managers can occur.

- Lack of coordination about change in resource availability across kubelet/runtime/plugins.
  - The plugins/runtime should be updated to react to change in resource information on the node.

> - Kubelet missing hotplug event or too many hotplug events

Author: Agreed, Intention was to mention kubelet failing to react/ignoring to any hot plug instances. So will rephrase accordingly to mention its level triggered.

in the pending state only.
Rollback failure should not affect running workloads.

###### What specific metrics should inform a rollback?

<!--
What signals should users be paying attention to when the feature is young
that might indicate a serious problem?
-->
If there is significant increase in `node_resize_resync_errors_total` metric means the feature is not working as expected.
In case of pending pods and hot plug of resource but still there is no change `scheduler_pending_pods` metric
means the feature is not working as expected.

###### Were upgrade and rollback tested? Was the upgrade->downgrade->upgrade path tested?

<!--
Describe manual testing that was done and the outcomes.
Longer term, we may want to require automated upgrade/rollback tests, but we
are missing a bunch of machinery and tooling and can't do that now.
-->

It will be tested manually as a part of implementation and there will also be automated tests to cover the scenarios.

###### Is the rollout accompanied by any deprecations and/or removals of features, APIs, fields of API types, flags, etc.?

<!--
Even if applying deprecation policies, they may still surprise some users.
-->

> No

Reviewer 18: Would we add a flag to control the poll duration about kubelet reading new machine info from cAdvisor

Reviewer 11: Flag, possibly not. Did you mean "field within the kubelet configuration file?"

(using command line arguments to kubelet is mostly deprecated in favor of using configuration fields)

Author: As suggested in [comment](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/3955#discussion_r1955119053) , we have decided to move away from poll mechanism to level triggered mechanism, Where we continuously watch for resize changes from cAdvisor and handle them accordingly.

Failure scenarios can occur in cAdvisor level that is if it wrongly updated with incorrect machine information.

###### What steps should be taken if SLOs are not being met to determine the problem?

If the SLOs are not being met one can examine the kubelet logs and its also advised not to hotplug the node resources.

## Implementation History

<!--
Major milestones in the lifecycle of a KEP should be tracked in this section.
Major milestones might include:
- the `Summary` and `Motivation` sections being merged, signaling SIG acceptance
- the `Proposal` section being merged, signaling agreement on a proposed design
- the date implementation started
- the first Kubernetes release where an initial version of the KEP was available
- the version of Kubernetes where the KEP graduated to general availability
- when the KEP was retired or superseded
-->

## Drawbacks

<!--
Why should this KEP _not_ be implemented?
-->

Currently, This KEP only focuses on resource hotplug however in a case where the node is downsized its possible that the
nodes capacity may be lower than existing workloads memory requirement.

## Alternatives

> Horizontally scale the cluster by incorporating additional compute nodes.

Reviewer 21: Alternative: use "fake" resources which are present but unavailable (e.g. balloon drivers)

# KEP-3953: Node Resource Hot Plug

<!--
A table of contents is helpful for quickly jumping to sections of a KEP and for
highlighting any additional information provided beyond the standard KEP
template.

Ensure the TOC is wrapped with
  <code>&lt;!-- toc --&rt;&lt;!-- /toc --&rt;</code>
tags, and then generate with `hack/update-toc.sh`.
-->

<!-- toc -->
- [Release Signoff Checklist](#release-signoff-checklist)
- [Glossary](#glossary)
- [Summary](#summary)
- [Motivation](#motivation)
  - [Goals](#goals)
  - [Non-Goals](#non-goals)
- [Proposal](#proposal)
  - [User Stories](#user-stories)
    - [Story 1](#story-1)
    - [Story 2](#story-2)
    - [Story 3](#story-3)
    - [Story 4](#story-4)
    - [Story 5](#story-5)
  - [Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)](#notesconstraintscaveats-optional)
  - [Risks and Mitigations](#risks-and-mitigations)
- [Design Details](#design-details)
  - [Handling hotplug events](#handling-hotplug-events)

>     - [Flow Control for updating swap limit for containers](#flow-control-for-updating-swap-limit-for-containers)

Reviewer 22: Since Swap is mentioned in this document and since Swap is supported only with cgroup v2. Does this mean intention for this KEP is not to be supported for cgroup v1 or ?

Reviewer 3: technically speaking cgroupv1 is feature frozen, but  I think we'll accidentally have support for cgroupv1 unless we explicitly skip the detection on v1

    - [ ] (R) Minimum Two Week Window for GA e2e tests to prove flake free
- [ ] (R) Graduation criteria is in place
    - [ ] (R) [all GA Endpoints](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/1806) must be hit by [Conformance Tests](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/conformance-tests.md)
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review completed
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review approved
- [ ] "Implementation History" section is up-to-date for milestone
- [ ] User-facing documentation has been created in [kubernetes/website], for publication to [kubernetes.io]
- [ ] Supporting documentation—e.g., additional design documents, links to mailing list discussions/SIG meetings, relevant PRs/issues, release notes

<!--
**Note:** This checklist is iterative and should be reviewed and updated every time this enhancement is being considered for a milestone.
-->

[kubernetes.io]: https://kubernetes.io/
[kubernetes/enhancements]: https://git.k8s.io/enhancements
[kubernetes/kubernetes]: https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes
[kubernetes/website]: https://git.k8s.io/website

## Glossary

> 

Reviewer 22: Suggestion: Add a Node Compute Resource definition or refer to K8s documentation to explicitly have this defined, and update KEP accordingly. Reasoning for clarity and improve reading this KEP.

```suggestion
Node Compute Resource: CPU, Memory, Swap Capacity or HugePages
```

> Hotplug: Dynamically add compute resources (CPU, Memory, Swap Capacity and HugePages) to the node, either via software (online offlined resources) or via hardware (physical additions while the system is running)

Reviewer 22: ```suggestion
Node Compute Resource Hot Plug: Dynamically add node compute resources (CPU, Memory, Swap Capacity and HugePages) to the node, either via software (online offlined resources) or via hardware (physical additions while the system is running)
```

Author: We inclined towards keeping hotplug in glossary.

> Hotunplug: Dynamically remove compute resources (CPU, Memory, Swap Capacity and HugePages) to the node, either via software (make resources go offline) or via hardware (physical removal while the system is running)

Reviewer 22: ```suggestion
Node Compute Resource Hot Unplug: Dynamically remove compute resources (CPU, Memory, Swap Capacity and HugePages) from the node, either via software (make resources go offline) or via hardware (physical removal while the system is running)
```

by the Kubernetes administrator.

Node resource hot plugging proves advantageous in scenarios such as:
- Efficiently managing resource demands with a limited number of nodes by increasing the capacity of existing nodes instead of provisioning new ones.
- The procedure of establishing new nodes is considerably more time-intensive than expanding the capabilities of current nodes.
- Improved inter-pod network latencies as the inter-node traffic can be reduced if more pods can be hosted on a single node.
- Easier to manage the cluster with fewer nodes, which brings less overhead on the control-plane
- Mitigate a few of the existing limitations/issues that are associated with a node/kubelet restart.

Implementing this KEP will empower nodes to recognize and adapt to changes in their compute configurations and allow facilitating the efficient and effective deployment of pod workloads to nodes capable of meeting the required compute demands.

### Goals

* Achieve seamless node capacity expansion through hot plugging resources.

> * Enable the re-initialization of resource managers (CPU manager, memory manager) and kube runtime manager to accommodate alterations in the node's resource allocation.

Reviewer 22: Is the re-initialization of resource managers, with or without a reset? I guess we aim without reset, correct? 

```suggestion
* Enable the re-initialization of resource managers (CPU manager, memory manager) and kube runtime manager without reset to accommodate alterations in the node's resource allocation.
```

- Improved inter-pod network latencies as the inter-node traffic can be reduced if more pods can be hosted on a single node.
- Easier to manage the cluster with fewer nodes, which brings less overhead on the control-plane
- Mitigate a few of the existing limitations/issues that are associated with a node/kubelet restart.

Implementing this KEP will empower nodes to recognize and adapt to changes in their compute configurations and allow facilitating the efficient and effective deployment of pod workloads to nodes capable of meeting the required compute demands.

### Goals

* Achieve seamless node capacity expansion through hot plugging resources.
* Enable the re-initialization of resource managers (CPU manager, memory manager) and kube runtime manager to accommodate alterations in the node's resource allocation.
* Recalculating and updating the OOMScoreAdj and swap memory limit for existing pods.

### Non-Goals

* Dynamically adjust system reserved and kube reserved values.
* Hot unplug of node resources.
* Update the autoscaler to utilize resource hot plugging.
* Re-balance workloads across the nodes.

> * Update runtime/NRI plugins with host resource changes.

Author: Yeah, Kind of, This point is derived from the conversion [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/3955#discussion_r1949924160).
I believe KEP-5224 would help the runtimes/NRI to get the updates easier.

    - With change in memoryCapacity post up-scale, The existing OOMScoreAdjust may not be inline with the
      actual OOMScoreAdjust for existing pods.
        - This can be mitigated by recalculating the OOMScoreAdjust value for the existing pods. However, there can be an associated overhead for
          recalculating the scores.
- Change in Swap limit:
    - The formula to calculate the swap limit is `<containerMemoryRequest>/<nodeTotalMemory>)*<totalPodsSwapAvailable>`
    - With change in nodeTotalMemory and totalPodsSwapAvailable post up-scale, The existing swap limit may not be inline with the
      actual swap limit for existing pods.
        - This can be mitigated by recalculating the swap limit for the existing pods. However, there can be an associated overhead for
          recalculating the scores.

- Post up-scale any failure in resync of Resource managers may be lead to incorrect or rejected allocation, which can lead to underperformed or rejected workload.
  - To mitigate the risks adequate tests should be added to avoid the scenarios where failure to resync resource managers can occur.

> - Lack of coordination about change in resource availability across kubelet/runtime/plugins.

Author: oh yeah, I meant to say NRI plugins, Let me explicitly specify that.

  - The plugins/runtime should be updated to react to change in resource information on the node.

- Kubelet missing on processing hotplug instance(s)
  - Kubelet observes the underlying node for any hotplug of resources as and when generated, 
    this ensures that the capacity is updated in set intervals and can technically not miss to update the actual capacity obtained from cAdvisor.

- Handling downsize events
  - Though, there is no support through this KEP to handle an event of node-downsize, it's the onus of the cluster administrator to resize responsibly to avoid disruption as it lies out of the kubernetes realm.
  - However, in a situation of downsize an error mode is returned by the kubelet and the node is marked as `NotReady`.

- Workloads that are dependent on the initial node configuration, such as:
  - Workloads that spawns per-CPU processes (threads, workpools, etc.)
  - Workloads that depend on the CPU-Memory relationships (e.g Processes that depend on NUMA/NUMA alignment.)
  - Dependency of external libraries/device drivers to support CPU hotplug as a supported feature.

## Design Details

> Below diagram is shows the interaction between kubelet, node and cAdvisor.

Reviewer 6: nit: wording
```suggestion
The diagram below shows the interaction between kubelet, node and cAdvisor.
```

2. If the machine resource is increased:
    * Recalculate, update OOMScoreAdj and Swap limit of all the running containers.
    * Re-initialize resource managers.
    * Update node with new resource.
3. If the machine resource is decreased.
    * Set node status to not ready. (This will be reverted when the current capacity exceeds or matches either the previous hot-plug capacity or the initial capacity 
      in case there was no history of hotplug.)

With increase in cluster resources the following components will be updated:
1. Change in OOM score adjust:
    * Currently, the OOM score adjust is calculated by
      `1000 - (1000*containerMemReq)/memoryCapacity`
    * Increase in memoryCapacity will result in updated OOM score adjust for pods deployed post resize and also recalculate the same for existing pods.

2. Change in Swap Memory limit:
   * Currently, the swap memory limit is calculated by 
 `(<containerMemoryRequest>/<nodeTotalMemory>)*<totalPodsSwapAvailable>`
   * Increase in nodeTotalMemory or totalPodsSwapAvailable will result in updated swap memory limit for pods deployed post resize and also recalculate the same for existing pods.

> 3. Resource managers will re-initialised.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
3. Resource managers are re-initialised.
```

> 4. Update in Node allocatable capacity.

Reviewer 6: nit: there are both `allocatable` and `capacity` in nodeStatus so maybe just

```suggestion
4. Update in Node capacity.
```

In this case, valid configuration refers to a state which can either be previous hot-plug capacity or the initial capacity in case there was no history of hotplug.

#### Flow Control

```
T=0: Node initial Resources:
    - Memory: 10G
    - Pod: Memory

T=1: Resize Instance to Hotplug Memory
    - Current Memory: 10G
    - Update Memory: 15G
    - Node state: Ready

T=2: Resize Instance to HotUnplug Memory
    - Current Memory: 15G
    - UpdatedMemory: 5G
    - Node state: NotReady

T=3: Resize Instance to Hotplug Memory
    - Current Memory: 5G
    - Updated Memory Size: 15G
    - Node state: Ready
```

Few of the concerns surrounding hotunplug are listed below
* Pod re-admission:
    * Given that there is probability that the current Pod resource usage may exceed the available capacity of node, its necessary to check if the pod can continue Running
      or if it has to be terminated due to resource crunch.
* Recalculate OOM adjust score and Swap limits:
    * Since the total capacity of the node has changed, values associated with the nodes memory capacity must be recomputed.

> * Handling unplug of reserved CPUs.

Reviewer 6: Do we capture the corner case where node capacity would increase but some of the resources go away, e.g. new cpuset is bigger but doesn't contain the old cpuset (dumb example `0-3` -> `2-9`). CPU manager sync returns an error and node goes to not ready?

Author: So for now we thought to only record an event during resync failures. may be need to check how we can identify what was the assigned cpu set before hotplug.

Currently, This KEP only focuses on resource hotplug however in a case where the node is downsized its possible that the
nodes capacity may be lower than existing workloads memory requirement.

## Alternatives

* Horizontally scale the cluster by incorporating additional compute nodes.
* Use fake placeholder resources that are available but not enabled (e.g., balloon drivers)

<!--
What other approaches did you consider, and why did you rule them out? These do
not need to be as detailed as the proposal, but should include enough
information to express the idea and why it was not acceptable.
-->

## Infrastructure Needed (Optional)
VMs of cluster should support hot plug of compute resources for e2e tests.

## Future Work

* Support hot-unplug of node resources:
  * Pod re-admission:
    * Given that there is probability that the current Pod resource usage may exceed the available capacity of node, its necessary to check if the pod can continue Running
      or if it has to be terminated due to resource crunch.
  * Recalculate OOM adjust score and Swap limits:
    * Since the total capacity of the node has changed, values associated with the nodes memory capacity must be recomputed.

>   * Handling unplug of reserved CPUs.

Reviewer 6: Plus handling unplug of exclusively allocated cpus(?)

* Recalculating and updating swap memory limit for existing pods.

### Non-Goals

* Dynamically adjust system reserved and kube reserved values.
* Hot unplug of node resources.
* Update the autoscaler to utilize resource hotplug.
* Re-balance workloads across the nodes.
* Update runtime/NRI plugins with host resource changes.

## Proposal

This KEP strives to enable node resource hot plugging by making the kubelet to watch and retrieve machine resource information from cAdvisor's cache as and when it changes, cAdvisor's cache is already updated periodically.
The kubelet will fetch this information, subsequently entrusting the node status updater to disseminate these updates at the node level across the cluster.
Moreover, this KEP aims to refine the initialization and reinitialization processes of resource managers, including the memory manager and CPU manager, to ensure their adaptability to changes in node configurations.
With this proposal it's also necessary to recalculate and update OOMScoreAdj and swap limit for the pods that had been existing before resize. But this carries a small overhead due to recalculation of swap and OOMScoreAdj.

### User Stories

> #### Story 1

Author: Done.

### Handling hotplug events

Once the capacity of the node is altered, the following are the sequence of events that occur in the kubelet. If any errors are 
observed in any of the steps, operation is retried from step 1 along with a `FailedNodeResize` event under the node object.
1. Resizing existing containers:
    a. With the increased memory capacity of the nodes, the kubelet proceeds to update fields that are directly related to
      the available memory on the host. This would lead to recalculation of oom_score_adj and swap_limits.
    b. This is achieved by invoking the CRI API - UpdateContainerResources.

2. Reinitialise Resource Manager:
     a. Resource managers such as CPU,Memory are updated with the latest available capacities on the host. This posts the latest
        available capacities under the node.
     b. This is achieved by calling ResyncComponents() of ContainerManager interface to re-sync the resource managers.

3. Updating the node allocatable resources:
     a. As the scheduler keeps a tab on the available resources of the node, post updating the available capacities,

>         the scheduler proceeds to schedule any pending pods.

Author: I am not sure I got your point correctly, as we intended to keep this specific to hotplug scenario, Can you please point me to the hotunplug section that looks repetitive.

The same will be targeted around the beta graduation of this KEP

### Handling HotUnplug Events

Though this KEP focuses only on resource hotplug, It will enable the kubelet to capture the current available capacity of the node (Regardless of whether it was a hotplug or hotunplug of resources.)
For now, we will introduce an error mode in the kubelet to inform users about the shrink in the available resources in case of hotunplug.

As the hot-unplug events are not completely handled in this KEP, in such cases, it is imperative to move the node to the NotReady state when the current capacity of the node
is lesser than the initial capacity of the node. This is only to point at the fact that the resources have shrunk on the node and may need attention/intervention.

Once the node has transitioned to the NotReady state, it will be reverted to the ReadyState once when the node's capacity is reconfigured to match or exceed the last valid configuration.
In this case, valid configuration refers to a state which can either be previous hot-plug capacity or the initial capacity in case there was no history of hotplug.

#### Flow Control

```
T=0: Node initial Resources:
    - Memory: 10G

>     - Pod: Memory

Author: It was by mistake, removed it.

      or if it has to be terminated due to resource crunch.
* Recalculate OOM adjust score and Swap limits:
    * Since the total capacity of the node has changed, values associated with the nodes memory capacity must be recomputed.
* Handling unplug of reserved CPUs.

we intend to propose a separate KEP dedicated to hotunplug of resources to address the same.

**Proposed Code changes**

**Pseudocode for Resource Hotplug**

```go
func (kl *Kubelet) syncLoopIteration(ctx context.Context, configCh <-chan kubetypes.PodUpdate, handler SyncHandler,
syncCh <-chan time.Time, housekeepingCh <-chan time.Time, plegCh <-chan *pleg.PodLifecycleEvent) bool {
    .
    .
    case machineInfo := <-kl.nodeResourceManager.MachineInfo():
        // Resize the containers.
        klog.InfoS("Resizing containers due to change in MachineInfo")
        if err := resizeContainers(); err != nil {
            klog.ErrorS(err, "Failed to resize containers with change in machine info")
            kl.recorder.Eventf(kl.nodeRef, v1.EventTypeWarning, events.FailedNodeResize, err.Error())

>             break

Reviewer 4: why this order? is that possible that we need to call the resource managers in the resize path which are still operating with stale data?

Author: You are right, I have addressed the same.

        }
        
        // Resync the resource managers.
        klog.InfoS("ResyncComponents resource managers because of change in MachineInfo")
        if err := kl.containerManager.ResyncComponents(machineInfo); err != nil {
            klog.ErrorS(err, "Failed to resync resource managers with machine info update")
            kl.recorder.Eventf(kl.nodeRef, v1.EventTypeWarning, events.FailedNodeResize, err.Error())
            break
        }
        
        // Update the cached MachineInfo.
        kl.setCachedMachineInfo(machineInfo)
    .
    .
}
```

> **Changes to resource managers to adapt to hotplug of resources**

Reviewer 4: Do we foresee to reuse this function for resource hotunplug in the future? (I'd expect yes)

Author: Yes, That's the idea. Apart from code that specifically deals with hot plug and hot-unplug we intend to reuse bits that are applicable for both the scenarios.

is to enable automation to verify the presence of the review, and to reduce review
burden and latency.

The KEP must have a approver from the
[`prod-readiness-approvers`](http://git.k8s.io/enhancements/OWNERS_ALIASES)
team. Please reach out on the
[#prod-readiness](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CPNHUMN74) channel if
you need any help or guidance.
-->

### Feature Enablement and Rollback

<!--
This section must be completed when targeting alpha to a release.
-->

###### How can this feature be enabled / disabled in a live cluster?

- [x] Feature gate (also fill in values in `kep.yaml`)
    - Feature gate name:NodeResourceHotPlug
    - Components depending on the feature gate: kubelet
- [ ] Other
    - Describe the mechanism:
    - Will enabling / disabling the feature require downtime of the control
      plane?
    - Will enabling / disabling the feature require downtime or reprovisioning
      of a node?

###### Does enabling the feature change any default behavior?

No. This feature is guarded by a feature gate. Existing default behavior does not change if the
feature is not used. 
Even if the feature is enabled via feature gate, If there is no change in 

> node configuration the system will continue to work in the same way.

Author: Yes, I have added further clarity on this topic and have updated that same. Thanks

    kubelet->>node: set node status to not ready
    end
```

The interaction sequence is as follows:
1. Kubelet will fetch machine resource information from cAdvisor's cache, Which is configurable a flag in cAdvisor `update_machine_info_interval`.
2. If the machine resource is increased:
    * Recalculate, update Swap limit of all the running containers.
    * Re-initialize resource managers.
    * Update node with new resource.
3. If the machine resource is decreased.
    * Set node status to not ready. (This will be reverted when the current capacity exceeds or matches either the previous hot-plug capacity or the initial capacity 
      in case there was no history of hotplug.)

With increase in cluster resources the following components will be updated:
1. Change in Swap Memory limit:
    * Currently, the swap memory limit is calculated by
      `(<containerMemoryRequest>/<nodeTotalMemory>)*<totalPodsSwapAvailable>`
    * Increase in nodeTotalMemory or totalPodsSwapAvailable will result in updated swap memory limit for pods deployed post resize and also recalculate the same for existing pods.

2. Resource managers are re-initialised.

3. Update in Node capacity.

4. Scheduler:

>     * Scheduler will automatically schedule any pending pods.
>     * This is done as an expected behavior and does not require any changes in the existing design of the scheduler, as the scheduler `watches` the
>       available capacity of the node and creates pods accordingly.

Reviewer 23: nit: I prefer to change wording to something like this

```suggestion
    * Scheduler keeps trying to schedule any pending pods.
    * The scheduler `watches` the updates to available capacity of the node and schedule pods accordingly. The scheduler is already doing this today, and this KEP does not require any changes in the scheduler implementation.
```

- Efficiently managing resource demands with a limited number of nodes by increasing the capacity of existing nodes instead of provisioning new ones.
- The procedure of establishing new nodes is considerably more time-intensive than expanding the capabilities of current nodes.
- Improved inter-pod network latencies as the inter-node traffic can be reduced if more pods can be hosted on a single node.
- Easier to manage the cluster with fewer nodes, which brings less overhead on the control-plane
- Mitigate a few of the existing limitations/issues that are associated with a node/kubelet restart.

Implementing this KEP will empower nodes to recognize and adapt to changes in their compute configurations and allow facilitating the efficient and effective deployment of pod workloads to nodes capable of meeting the required compute demands.

### Goals

* Achieve seamless node capacity expansion through resource hotplug.
* Enable the re-initialization of resource managers (CPU manager, memory manager) and kube runtime manager without reset to accommodate alterations in the node's resource allocation.
* Recalculating and updating swap memory limit for existing pods.

> ### Non-Goals

Reviewer 24: I don't really see you call out devices. Is this in scope for this feature? ie adding gpudevices?

Author: No its not in the scope, May be I can explicitly mention that for more clarity, Thanks.

```

### Test Plan

[x] I/we understand the owners of the involved components may require updates to
existing tests to make this code solid enough prior to committing the changes necessary
to implement this enhancement.

##### Unit tests

1. Add necessary tests in kubelet_node_status_test.go to check for the node status behaviour with dynamic node scale up.
2. Add necessary tests in kubelet_pods_test.go to check for the pod cleanup and pod addition workflow.
3. Add necessary tests in eventhandlers_test.go to check for scheduler behaviour with dynamic node capacity change.
4. Add necessary tests in resource managers to check for managers behaviour to adopt dynamic node capacity change.
5. Add necessary tests to validate change in oom_score and swap limit for containers post resize.

##### e2e tests

Following scenarios need to be covered:

* Node resource information before and after resource hot plug for the following scenarios.
  * upsize -> downsize
  * upsize -> downsize -> upsize
  * downsize -> upsize
* State of Pending pods due to lack of resources after resource hot plug.
* Resource manager states after the resync of components.

### Graduation Criteria

> #### Phase 1: Alpha (target 1.34)

Reviewer 24: ```suggestion
#### Phase 1: Alpha (target 1.35)
```

<!--

Production readiness reviews are intended to ensure that features merging into
Kubernetes are observable, scalable and supportable; can be safely operated in
production environments, and can be disabled or rolled back in the event they
cause increased failures in production. See more in the PRR KEP at
https://git.k8s.io/enhancements/keps/sig-architecture/1194-prod-readiness.

The production readiness review questionnaire must be completed and approved
for the KEP to move to `implementable` status and be included in the release.

In some cases, the questions below should also have answers in `kep.yaml`. This
is to enable automation to verify the presence of the review, and to reduce review
burden and latency.

The KEP must have a approver from the
[`prod-readiness-approvers`](http://git.k8s.io/enhancements/OWNERS_ALIASES)
team. Please reach out on the
[#prod-readiness](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CPNHUMN74) channel if
you need any help or guidance.
-->

### Feature Enablement and Rollback

<!--
This section must be completed when targeting alpha to a release.
-->

###### How can this feature be enabled / disabled in a live cluster?

> <!--

Reviewer 24: can you remove this comment when you get a chance?

it seems you removed the other ones.

Author: Updated, Thanks

### Goals

* Achieve seamless node capacity expansion through resource hotplug.
* Enable the re-initialization of resource managers (CPU manager, memory manager) and kube runtime manager without reset to accommodate alterations in the node's resource allocation.
* Recalculating and updating swap memory limit for existing pods.

### Non-Goals

* Dynamically adjust system reserved and kube reserved values.
* Hot unplug of node resources.
* Update the autoscaler to utilize resource hotplug.
* Re-balance workloads across the nodes.
* Update runtime/NRI plugins with host resource changes.

## Proposal

This KEP strives to enable node resource hot plugging by making the kubelet to watch and retrieve machine resource information from cAdvisor's cache as and when it changes, cAdvisor's cache is already updated periodically.
The kubelet will fetch this information, subsequently entrusting the node status updater to disseminate these updates at the node level across the cluster.
Moreover, this KEP aims to refine the initialization and reinitialization processes of resource managers, including the memory manager and CPU manager, to ensure their adaptability to changes in node configurations.

> With this proposal it's also necessary to recalculate and update OOMScoreAdj and swap limit for the pods that had been existing before resize. But this carries a small overhead due to recalculation of swap and OOMScoreAdj.

Reviewer 3: is this still accurate?

Reviewer 6: OOMScoreAdj will not be recalculated. Right @Karthik-K-N?

Author: Yeah, OOMScoreAdj is not recalculated, I just updated it. Thank you.

          recalculating the scores.

- Change in OOMScoreAdjust value:
    - The formula to calculate OOMScoreAdjust is `1000 - (1000*containerMemReq)/memoryCapacity`
    - With change in memoryCapacity post up-scale, The existing OOMScoreAdjust may not be inline with the
      actual OOMScoreAdjust for existing pods.
    - Its not recommended to update the OOMScoreAdjust of a running container as OOMScoreAdjust value is set for init process(pid 1) which is 
      responsible for running all other container's processes.
    - When we update OOMScoreAdjust for a running container, its set for container init only, and possibly processes which will be started later and
      running won't get the OOMScoreAdjust new value.
        - This can be mitigated by updating the OOMScoreAdj formula to not consider current memory value, hence the new OOMScoreAdj formula looks like this
            `min(0, 1000 - (1000*containerMemoryRequest)/initialMemoryCapacity)`

- Post up-scale any failure in resync of Resource managers may be lead to incorrect or rejected allocation, which can lead to underperformed or rejected workload.

>   - To mitigate the risks adequate tests should be added to avoid the scenarios where failure to resync resource managers can occur.

Reviewer 25: Hey @haircommander,  The idea we have right now for unit testing is by mock the sysfs structure and modifying the `online` file. We could structure the tests around the same. For example, flipping the /sys/bus/cpu/devices/cpuX/online to 0 or 1 enables or disables the CPU and the same is expected to be caught by the kubelet during a poll cycle.
Ref:
CPU Hotplug: https://docs.kernel.org/core-api/cpu_hotplug.html#using-cpu-hotplug
Memory Hotplug: https://docs.kernel.org/admin-guide/mm/memory-hotplug.html#onlining-and-offlining-memory-blocks

- Lack of coordination about change in resource availability across kubelet/runtime/NRI plugins.
  - The runtime/NRI plugins should be updated to react to change in resource information on the node.

- Kubelet missing on processing hotplug instance(s)
  - Kubelet observes the underlying node for any hotplug of resources as and when generated, 
    this ensures that the capacity is updated in set intervals and can technically not miss to update the actual capacity obtained from cAdvisor.

- Handling downsize events
  - Though, there is no support through this KEP to handle an event of node-downsize, it's the onus of the cluster administrator to resize responsibly to avoid disruption as it lies out of the kubernetes realm.

>   - However, in a situation of downsize an error mode is returned by the kubelet and the node is marked as `NotReady`.

Reviewer 3: If an admin downsizes then increases resources after, does the node return to ready or stay in not ready until it's restarted? I feel the latter but should probably expand

Reviewer 6: The current PoC implementation returns the node to Ready state if the resources (or more) become available again. Node is put into NotReady states but other parts of kubelet are not aware of the change (e.g. resource managers are not re-initialized etc). This kind of matches the existing behavior of kubelet not being aware of changes in node capacity.

Example of resizing a resource capacity: 10 (Ready) -> 5 (NotReady) -> 20 (Ready) -> 10 (NotReady) -> 15 (NotReady) -> 20 (Ready).
